Jehovah wants your family
to be happy and peaceful.
But Jehovah does more than simply say,
“I hope you have a peaceful family life.”
He explains exactly how we
can get our family there.
I want you to imagine Jehovah
laying out a map in front of you
and saying: “See these landmarks?
“Look for them on the road to peace.
And if you see them,
you’re going in the right direction.”
So far in this symposium, we’ve passed
the landmarks of showing love and respect,
improving communication,
and working together as a team.
The last landmark
we’ll consider in this symposium
is worshipping together as a family.
Worshipping together as a family
promotes peace and brings his blessing.
Even if not all in your family
are worshippers of Jehovah,
you can promote peace
by maintaining a very good spiritual routine.
In the following dramatization,
notice some common obstacles
to worshipping Jehovah as a family.
Hi.
Hey, babe.
So, what’s for family worship this week?
I think I got some good ideas.
Yeah?
Mm-hmm.
Thank you for reading that.
Um.
Let’s just go ahead and ask the question.
We’ll just do that.
So paragraphs 13 and 14:
“How can we be generous?”
Anybody?
Now, the footnote that we just read
really helps us to appreciate
the definition of that quality.
Without the definition, we’re left to wonder
exactly what it is
and how it connects to the other things
that we’ve discussed this evening.
Gabe, can you go ahead
and read the next one for us?
Mm-hmm.
Thank you.
The Bible contains many examples
of submissive individuals.
So are there examples?
Sue.
Yeah.
That’s right.
When we talk about examples,
where do we start?
There are examples in the past;
there are even examples presently.
And we could even be examples.
That’s—that’s the power of them.
Let’s keep going.
That was a lot of reading.
I know, right?
I want to enjoy family worship, but
I feel like the things that we are covering
are just really not what I need right now.
Yeah.
You know, I just don’t know
if this is what they need right now.
Hmm.
We’ll keep working on it.
I think we’d all agree that family worship
was difficult to watch.
It was uncomfortable for everyone.
Clearly, Max and Irene had some obstacles
they needed to overcome
to really worshipping Jehovah as a family.
To start and keep a good habit going
requires determination and resolve.
So that’s where you need
to start for your family.
You need to resolve
that you’re going
to worship Jehovah as a family.
Notice the resolve in Joshua’s words
at Joshua 24:15.
That’s Joshua 24:15:
“Now if it seems bad to you to serve Jehovah,
“choose for yourselves today
whom you will serve,
“whether the gods that your forefathers
served on the other side of the River
“or the gods of the Amorites
in whose land you are dwelling.
“But as for me and my household,
we will serve Jehovah.”
Yes, worship of Jehovah as a family
needs to be at the very center
of your family life.
Now, weekly family worship
is not all that’s involved
in worshipping together as a family.
Let’s consider five ways
we can worship Jehovah together as a family.
(1) Prayer.
Parents, do not underestimate the impact
that your prayers have on your children.
When a child hears their parents
pour out their hearts to Jehovah,
that tells them that Jehovah
is very real to their parents.
I can recall growing up listening
to my father’s prayers.
Now, when I was young,
I thought his prayers were very long.
But as I grew older and really
listened carefully to what he was saying,
I could see how much of a close relationship
he had with Jehovah.
(2) Discuss the daily text.
It’s an excellent habit
and a very spiritual way to start the day.
(3) Attend meetings.
Now, we’re not just making sure our family
is there at the meetings
but that they’re involved and engaged.
And work hard to prepare
so that all family members
can have a meaningful comment
at the meetings.
(4) Share in the ministry regularly
as a family.
Now, sharing in the ministry together
as a family
draws us closer to our family members.
When we hear them speak about the truth,
we listen to their phone calls,
or we read their letters,
we can feel their faith.
I loved going in the ministry with my mother
and listening to her skillfully use the Bible
to answer questions.
And (5) have a consistent,
enjoyable,
and meaningful Family Worship program.
Let’s consider what that means
—first of all, consistent.
In the video, Max was trying to have
the family worship consistently each week.
Is your family worship consistent each week?
Is your family worship enjoyable?
In the video, the kids were bored.
They were looking at their phones
and checking the time.
And week after week
of kind of a question-and-answer style
led to the young people
giving sort of one-word answers.
It did not look enjoyable.
Now, would your family
describe family worship as enjoyable?
How about meaningful?
What Max was using for material
was material that he thought was meaningful.
But did it look like it
was meaningful to the family?
Does your family worship use material
that is meaningful to your family?
Now, after reviewing these five points,
we don’t want you to be discouraged
if it’s a struggle
to maintain a good routine.
Life in this system has many challenges,
trials, and unexpected events.
So stay positive.
And when your good routine
breaks down from time to time,
consider what adjustments you can make
to be successful and get
your spiritual routine back on track.
Regularly ask Jehovah for his help,
and don’t give up.
Now, as you watch
the following dramatization,
notice how Max and Irene
and the family worked together
to make family worship successful.
March 15, 2014, Watchtower,
“Family Worship
—Can you Make It More Enjoyable?”:
“The worship of Jehovah
should not be boring. . . .
Address the needs of each family member.”
Babe, what do our kids need?
What’s actually going on in their lives?
Family worship needs to include that.
Yeah, maybe we need to pay more attention
to what’s going on with them.
Talk to them; listen to them.
I’m going to send you a link
to a great Watchtower  article.
I can’t wait to read it.
Max and I changed our approach.
We found out what mattered to our kids
—like friends,
. . . adjusting to a blended family,
. . . dating.
So we turned things around
and used family worship
to focus on what our kids really needed
and to prepare ourselves
for possible future trials.
Good night, y’all.
Good night.
Um,
family worship was—was cool.
It was.
I’m glad you liked it.
Thank you.
Good night, y’all.
Night.
Good night.
Hey! Guess what?
What?
I applied to Bethel.
You did?
Yep.
That’s really exciting.
I’m proud of you.
Thanks.
Aww, congratulations.
Thank you.
Hey, it’s selfie time, everybody.
Come on, let’s get together.
All right. On three
we’re going to say Bethel, OK?
All right.
One, two, three.
Bethel!
We’ve come a long way.
And through it all,
Jehovah has taught us to love
and he’s given our family
peace.
We can see that Max and Irene analyzed
what was wrong with family worship
and decided to change their approach.
Let’s examine how they did that
and what it means for us.
What did they do to make their
family worship more meaningful?
Well, Max and Irene had to ask themselves
what was going on in their kids’ lives.
What topics could they
discuss at family worship
that would truly be useful to their kids?
Did you smile when you saw Max
almost drop the glass
when his daughter talked about dating?
But what a difference their efforts to listen
and really understand what was happening
with the kids made in the family worship!
How did Max and Irene
make family worship more enjoyable?
Did you see how the family
was reacting at family worship now?
What a difference!
The kids were smiling.
They looked engaged in the discussion
and touched by what they were discussing.
So do what you can
to make sure that your family
feels relaxed and happy
and that your family worship reflects
the kind of happy
and joyful God that Jehovah is.
Remember, your family will often remember
more about how they felt
during family worship
than maybe the exact details
of what they learned.
Keep worshipping Jehovah as a family.
Make your family worship consistent,
enjoyable, and meaningful.
And work together to overcome obstacles,
just like Max and Irene and the kids
all worked together to solve problems
and create a very peaceful family life.
It was really beautiful to see how far
they had come by applying Bible principles.
In review, this symposium has taught us
that Bible principles can be used
as a road map to family peace.
Work hard to show love and respect,
to improve communication,
to work together as a team,
and to worship Jehovah together.
And please be patient with one another
as you form habits that lead to peace.
With Jehovah’s help, you and your family
will enjoy peace that only he can provide.